So far we have been talking about the linear regression model.
So we would like to find a linear relationship between two features such as size of a given houses and
prices accordingly.
OK we can use a two dimensional plot in order to plot the data points.
And because we are after some linear relationships that's why we can use this linear formula H.
X is equals the beat is 0 plus a B to 1 times x x is the size and age X is the price of the given house.
So we will end up with a linear line like this.
And we have to use some optimization algorithm because we would like to make sure that the distance
of the data points from this linear line is going to be as small as possible.
What does it mean that we would like to minimize this mean square error or the cost function.
Ok so we would like to minimize by tuning the better perimeters.
This formula the age X minus Y which is that main squared error or OK we can do it with the half of
linear algebra but gradient descent is a better approach because it is working fine in higher dimensions
even when dealing with lots of lots of features.
OK so gradient descent has something to do with partial derivatives and the gradient.
So if we Plaut this cost function which is the main square arrow or and for example all the possible
values for between one and all the possible values for a BD 0.
We end up with a three dimensional plane like this.
It is going to have a local minima and this is exactly what we are after.
Why.
Because if we find those better perimeters that minimize the cost function which is the mean square
error or it means that there's going to be a very very small error term.
And of course this is what we are after.
So we have to know the partial derivative of the cost function and go to the direction of the gradient.
That's the main principle behind 3D and descend the gradient is going to be the partial derivative of
the cost function with respect to beat zero.
And with respect to be the warm sodium gradient X Unforgiven f x function is pointing in the direction
of the maximum.
But of course we are looking for the minimum.
So thats why we have to use minus gradient AF X of course the x x in this case the cost function or
the mean squared error function.
So basically gradient descent is a very very simple approach.
It is an iterative approach.
So we have to make lots of lots of iterations and in every iteration we update the beat is 0 and B to
1 paramita.
According to this equation the new value of b to zero is equal to the previous value of b to zero minus
a learning rate times the gradient.
What is it mean.
Because of the minus sign in every iteration we take a small step towards the local minima and basically
thats why we have to use this our this our thought is the learning grade and it is going to define whether
the stop is going to be big or just very very small step.
Usually we prefer making small steps.
But anyways.
Ok so this is how we change the beat is zero parameter and this is how we change the be the one parameter
as you can see the difference is that the partial derivatives with respect to beat is 0.
This is how we update to zero and a partial derivative with respect to be to 1.
This is how we update the B to one.
OK and Alpha is the learning rate.
If it is small then the algorithm takes small steps Stover's the minimum.
It takes more time to converge but its going to be more accurate.
Even the learning rate is huge.
The algorithm takes big steps towards the minimum.
OK on the other hand it's going to be faster.
So there's a tradeoff between accuracy and running time.
If the learning rate is small the algorithm is going to be quite accurate but it's not going to be the
fastest.
I agree that impossible if the learning rate is high then the algorithm is going to be quite fast but
it's not going to be accurate.
OK so this is the cost function.
We have the better perimeters and with the half of gradient descent and in these equations I guess these
are quite easy equations.
OK we just have to deal with the partial derivatives but basically this is how we are able to end up
with the minimum is it good because if we find a better one and a beat is zero Peramivir is associated
with minimum value.
It means that the mean square error or is a very very small.
What is it mean that age X is very very similar to own.
What does it mean that our linear regression model is making good predictions.
If age X is very very far away from y it means that our linear regression model makes bad predictions.
So we would like to make sure that age X is very very similar to Y and basically we kind of make sure
that age X is very very similar to y.
If we find the global minima as far as the cost function is concerned we just have to use the bita 1
and beat 0 parameters associated with the local minima and read the half of this equation using the
beat is 0 and B to 1 perimeters we have found with the help of gradient descent we are able to make
good predictions as far as house prices are concerned.
OK if you navigate to this website there's a good illustration how gradient descent works.
As you can see it is an iterative approach.
It uses a three dimensional function.
Very very similar to what we have seen.
So the cost function is very very similar to this function but here we have a three dimensional representation
here on the website.
There's a two dimensional representation of the three dimensional function.
But as you can see gradient descent is going to converge to the global minima.
What does it mean that we are able to find the minima of this function with the help of this iterative
gradient descent algorithm which means that we are able to solve this optimization problem and eventually
we are able to end up with a model that's capable of making good predictions as far as house prices
are concerned.
Thanks for watching.